You know, I think that there's always a
gap between the idealized vision of what
you think your job's going to be and
then what your job actually is. I think
this is true for every profession. You
idealize and kids do this the most,
right? When they're like want to be a
firefighter or an astronaut. [laughter]
Um what that job looks like. And then
and then you get in that job and you
realize, oh, there's there's actually a
lot in this that I don't like.
And we want to be the tool that that
actually closes the gap between what you
think your job's going to be and what
your job [music] actually is.
>> [music]
>> All right, I'm here with Jake, the
founder and CEO of Serval. Jake, welcome
to the show.
>> Thank you so much. Great to be here.
>> All right, we're going to start with a
high-level question.
You guys are building kind of the next
generation ServiceNow, like the
AI-native ServiceNow, so to speak.
>> That is right.
>> Why does the world need an AI-native
ServiceNow?
>> Yeah, employees need help at work.
That's kind of the idea here is we are a
platform for employee support. The
technical term is enterprise service
management, but what it really means is
getting help at work. And the ideal way
to get help at work is you ask for
something and you get it instantly,
automatically. You don't have to wait on
somebody to track down a ticket and
assign a ticket to somebody. You just
get help immediately. That requires
you to have some kind of automated
support. And that automation is is best
built with AI. So, we think about this
from first principles. How do we support
employees? You automate all the
requests. How do you automate all those
requests? AI is really a good tool to
bring that automation employees.
>> Awesome. Let's say more about that. So,
I remember back in the day, um when we
first met Fred Luddy, who was the
founder of ServiceNow in like 2007, 2008
sort of time frame. And at that time
people thought that ServiceNow was
amazing cuz it was this big step
function change over Paragon and Remedy.
And the key thing that they got right
was to think about
uh enterprise software
as an abstraction is just workflows on
top of a database, right? So, they built
kind of this flexible workflow
configuration engine on top of a
database,
and at the time that was amazing, and
you know, IT people loved it, and and
they're off to the races. What I'm
hearing you say is that that's not
enough. With AI, there's kind of a new
generation of automation that can be
done. Can you just say more about the
thing that ServiceNow built and the
thing that you guys have built and kind
of the side-by-side, like what is truly
different this time around?
>> They got it right.
Uh we also built workflows on top of
databases, and that is the right uh
abstraction. That Those are the right
primitives.
The problem with their workflows and
databases is that they require a lot of
manual effort to build and maintain. So,
building those workflows often requires
dedicated development resources to put
those together.
And while that sounds fine, you invest
those resources, and you get a beautiful
automation on the end of it, that can
take weeks to months.
And in an era where business processes
are changing very rapidly, by the time
you get that workflow implemented, your
business may have changed and moved on,
and you want a different workflow. And
so, your automation kind of runs behind
where you want it to be, and that's more
true now than ever before. Same with the
database, if if you need to manually
update those entries and look at your IT
assets and make sure they're up to date
in those systems,
that's going to be very, very painful to
have to bring in consultants or internal
developers to update. We took this
unique approach of let's keep those
primitives, workflows on top of
databases, but allow you to use AI to
build the workflows and use AI to update
the databases. And the way we do that is
this code gen engine, where you describe
the workflow that you want, all the
different steps and permissions and
approvals and logic, and we take your
natural language description, and we
turn that into code. And so, your
workflow appears instantaneously.
There's practically zero time to develop
those workflows. And the same thing goes
for our databases. You can describe
exactly what data you want to take from
which sources, and our system will
actually generate the code to fetch that
data and keep it up to date without you
having to do any kind of manual
intervention.
>> I remember you said uh months ago, this
is one of the things you said when we
were first getting to know each other
that really piqued my interest.
Something along the lines of, if you
really want to drive enterprise
automation,
you have to make the process of building
the automation just as simple, if not
simpler,
as the workflow being automated.
>> Exactly.
>> Is that Do you still believe that? Is
that still true?
>> I still believe that. And And that
insight came from just putting yourself
in the the shoes of someone in IT or
another function, and you're presented
with a task. Somebody asks you to reset
their password. And you've got two
options. You can go into Google
Workspace, find the user, hit a button
that says reset password.
>> Yeah.
>> Or you can open up a workflow builder.
And you [laughter] can drag the trigger,
and then you can drag the response, and
then you can you can build out this
custom workflow. And
when you're presented with that choice,
you're just going to reset the password.
You're going to do the manual thing.
But if it were actually easier to build
the automation, you would build the
automation, cuz it's just why wouldn't
you? And I think that it comes down to
that. People in the moment have to make
that decision, and you want that
decision to be very, very easy to opt
for the automation, not opt for the
manual step.
>> Now, is there is there such a thing
as being too simple to automate? Like is
there is there You know, people talk
about the vibe coding and all the slop
that it produces. Is there such a thing
as slop automation?
>> Yeah, it it is. It's real, and we've had
to build some really interesting things
around that. Because yeah, when you make
it so easy to automate, somebody might
build the 20th password reset workflow
this week,
>> Yeah.
>> and it's basically the same as the 19th
that came before it, and now you've got
all these uh duplicate workflows, and
the AI gets confused on which one to
run.
>> Yeah, how do you guys manage that?
>> We we built a uh a a agent basically on
top of Serval that's what we're really
excited about, that has full contextual
awareness of all the workflows you've
ever built before, how they work, what
they're going to do. So, when you say,
"Hey, I want this workflow that does X,
Y, and Z." It says, "Hey, actually,
you've got 19 that already do that. I
can modify one of these, but here's what
I think you should do. I think you
should actually delete 10 of them,
separate these the remaining nine into
these different categories, add these
approval steps." And so, it actually
walks you through the system and is kind
of your assistant that's an expert in
our product to help you translate your
the business requirements into the
actual uh product implementation.
>> Speaking of the product, so you're a
product guy
and one of the things that we've heard
about you consistently from every
possible source is that you're extremely
customer-focused and like really good at
listening to the customers and figuring
out what they need. Do you have a North
Star metric that you rely on that just
tells you the product is getting better
and more useful or is it more you
collect all the anecdotes, you
synthesize them, you kind of have an
intuitive sense? Like, is there a number
that you can look at?
>> I think it's the latter. Like, I try to
be embedded with the customers, like
full immersion. I am in every single
customer Slack channel.
>> Yeah.
>> I think most of our customers will get a
Slack from me in that channel every
single day.
>> Wow.
>> And that is a huge maybe
>> And just to set the context, a listener
might think like, "Okay, you probably
have four customers." How many customers
do you have or
>> No, we have 100 customers
uh and and a lot of large enterprises
and it is overwhelming at times to be in
all those conversations all the time and
sometimes I feel like, "Oh man, am I
wasting my time?" But I feel like I
really understand what's going well,
what's not going well, and and I just
have my finger on the pulse.
And there's just no substitute for that,
especially when a lot of the
implementation work has gotten very
fast. More and more of the moat for any
startup is the customer insight, the
empathy of like actually understanding
what they want. And if we can have a
differentiated advantage around the
customer insight, that's going to be
much more valuable than having a, you
know, a product advantage, which is
copyable overnight.
>> Let's talk more about that because, um,
this has been a hot topic for a few
years now. You know, Chat GPT comes out
in November of 2022 and immediately
people start deriding application layer
companies as wrappers on top of a
foundation model, right? And what you
just said kind of plays directly into
this theme of there's always a school of
thought that says, well, a foundation
model's going to just do everything. And
then there's a school of thought that
says, sure, but you can build a company
on top to close the gap between raw
capabilities and like actual customer
problems.
How do you view your role running an
application layer company versus the
role of the foundation models? Like,
where do you think the moats form around
your business over time? Basically, to
the extent somebody listening is
interested in, like, how do you build an
application layer company in this era,
what are your thoughts on that?
>> I think you have to be happy when the
new models come out, and that is that is
kind of the guiding principle that we
have is, how do we make sure whatever
we're building is actually not made
obsolete by whatever the labs and
hyperscalers come out with, but actually
is is made better.
>> What's a good example?
>> For us, we think the product is the
boundaries. The product is the controls,
uh, the product is actually what limits
the capabilities of the model. Cuz the
question now is not, can Opus, can, uh,
GPT 5.5 do these amazing things? Can
they do the things I want to do in my
enterprise environment? The capabilities
are practically unlimited. It's the
limitation now is, how do I get
comfortable as a large enterprise that
cares about security in deploying this
company-wide without elevating my
security risk. And so, we think about it
from the boundaries, and so that means
really boring old-school enterprise
software things around permissions and
approvals and, uh, limiting the scope of
your API integrations and having
visibility into that, having audits and
and reporting and logs and alerts and
just all of the things that make you
feel comfortable
letting the models run run wild in your
environment. And so one of the
fundamental things we did from an
architecture perspective is kind of
divide the agents into two parts. So our
our customers when they experience Servo
there's there's really two agents they
work with. One is the admin agent that
helps build all of these tools and
skills that configure how the help desk
what what things that help desk agent
can do and what it knows about. And so
it's the admins that build that. And
then there's a help desk agent that end
users talk to that resolves their
problems.
The help desk agent can only use the
tools and skills that have been
expressly built, published with
approvals and permissions and all of
that by the admins. And that
architecture, that kind of like
two-pronged architecture, ends up being
really really powerful because you can
let the help desk agent run wild, right?
Because the end user can ask it anything
and it can use its reasoning ability and
its full intelligence to be able to
solve the user problems
but it can only use the tools that the
IT admin has a expressly set are okay to
use. And those may have approvals
attached, permissions that gate certain
users from doing certain things. All of
that is done on the admin side, but then
you get like kind of the full ability
and intelligence of the help desk agent
to use those tools appropriately.
>> What's under the hood? Is there anything
you can say about which models you guys
are having luck with and maybe how
that's evolved over time?
>> Yeah, we we use Open AI and Anthropic
models today. Um always experimenting
with the latest models from all
providers to make sure that we're on the
cutting edge. Running eval suites on on
everything that we do.
Um today it's still Open AI and
Anthropic models. We find different
models are better at different uh
applications. So for the interaction
with the end user we're seeing the most
luck with Open AI models.
Um
and that has remained consistent for
quite a long time. That, you know,
actually calling the correct tools and
responding to the user in the
appropriate way, that's still we're
having a lot of success with with
various GPT models and um, you know,
always keeping those up to date
depending on on the latest release. But
on the
automation side, the which is mostly
code gen automation,
I'm having the most success with the
Anthropic models. So, um,
continue to use those, Sonnet, Opus. Um,
and tons of trade-offs between the
different models. And I think what's
interesting in recent times is is the
new releases often times are not just
like plug and play. You know, sometimes
you get some advantages and some things
that were working really well don't work
as well anymore. So, that's become an
interesting challenge as things go.
>> Actually, yeah, how do you guys manage
that? Like how long does it take to
incorporate new models into the
production version of your product? It
How much of that process is like
automated in some fashion? How much of
that is somebody just has to sit down
and figure it out? Like how how do you
manage that?
>> It's not as automated as I'd like. We we
have the evals automated, but then in
every situation when we when we have a
new model that we're testing, some
things get better and some things get
worse. And a lot of the things that get
worse, not necessarily the model got
worse, but we built a lot of prompt
tuning and a lot of uh, infrastructure
around the known quirks or or behaviors
of that model. And those make less and
less sense when the new model comes out
or we're swapping models. And so, that's
where a lot of the adjustments have to
be made. And then you kind of run it
through the evals and then you do a slow
release across customers. So, we're
getting better at this, but I think
there's there's certain cases where the
trade-offs have not been worth it. Where
we've actually
uh, upgraded models and then downgraded
the models and said, "You know what? The
old models are maybe they're a little
bit faster.
Um, or maybe they're reliable in a way
that the new models aren't." So, maybe
the new models are a little bit smarter,
but they misbehave in ways that are less
predictable and we have less predictable
guardrails to prevent against. And so,
we're like, "Hey, this model might not
be as smart, but we know it's going to
behave the right way for these
customers. So,
>> Yes.
>> um it's been an interesting challenge
and it's changed over time.
>> How much are you guys um factoring cost
into the equation right now? Because I
think
you know, step one, you got to make sure
the product does something magical.
>> Yep.
>> Step two, okay, now let's make sure we
got a business, you know,
>> [laughter]
>> and we can you know, we can extract an
appropriate amount of value for for this
functionality. Do you guys think much
about cost at this point or we kind of
know where that's going over time? Let's
make sure the product is magical and
we'll figure out the cost element later.
>> It it's the latter and I think one of
the reasons that give us this
flexibility is that
our unit economics end up looking much
better than a lot of AI companies
because we are not in the business of
reselling tokens. The way that our
product works is that you build these
automations which are, you know,
basically type scripts.
>> Yeah.
>> And once they're built,
you don't have to rebuild that. And so
every time the the end user asks for a
password reset,
it's not going and regenerating code to
reset a password. It's actually just
running the code that's already been
generated. Over time, users have to
generate less and less actual code
because we have a a growing library of
automations that cover the very long
tail of things that you might want to
do. And so there's not as much, uh
especially in the the kind of very
expensive code gen uh token consumption,
there's not as much as you'd expect. And
so the unit economics are very strong
even though we haven't done a lot of
optimizations around that. So, I try to
tell the team, spend more money, use the
best possible product.
>> Yeah.
>> We know long term where this is going.
We know there are all kinds of
optimizations we can make down the line.
Um so that's been our focus today. I
think that though where it starts to get
more interesting is is as we explore
more and more applications of like
background agents, long-running agents
that are not just responding to help
desk requests, are not just building
quick scripts for you, but investigating
all of your historical tickets
or investigating logs from devices and
and doing all this work in the
background and maybe generating
solutions to problems you didn't know
you had, that's where it becomes a
little bit more interesting where maybe
the costs become more relevant. So,
that's where we'll probably start to
think about costs a little bit earlier
in the journey because those could run
away pretty quickly if you're not
keeping an eye on it.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. Let's say
somebody at Open AI Anthropic wakes up
tomorrow and they're like, "Wait a
minute,
I found this company called ServiceNow
and it seems to be like a major system
of record, major center of gravity
inside the enterprise.
I think we should build as a first-party
product, you know, the Open AI
ServiceNow or the or the Anthropic
ServiceNow. If they set their sights on
you
and come after you directly or come
after your category directly, what would
that mean for ServiceNow?
>> Yeah, I mean this this is always a
really tough question because on the one
hand, any response to like, "Okay, this
company with infinite money and the best
engineering talent [laughter]
and AGI wants to do what you do, how are
you better?" is kind of like any
response to that is going to sound
pretty naive but like, "Well, we're just
going to like beat them."
Um but I think the history of startups
tells us that often
the smaller company does beat them. I
mean the the existence of Open AI and
Anthropic are kind of proof that you can
beat the entrenched incumbent with
infinite resources
uh and and I think it comes down to, you
know, maybe divine providence favoring
startups or maybe like [laughter] a
lack of focus uh is is often what makes
it hard to execute. And so, you know,
when I was starting my first company in
the whole you know, every VC would ask
me, uh "Won't Google just do this?" And
and yes, Google will do a lot of those
things but it actually is very hard to
do a lot of different things really,
really well and it's hard to to divert
your focus into all these categories.
And I don't think ITSM makes the most
sense as a focus area. One reason is
that I think in the past couple of
months, Anthropic has added more ARR
than ServiceNow has in the past 20
years.
>> Good point.
>> And so, does it really make sense for
them to take their best and brightest
people to throw them at this problem
that even if they are very successful
would not be really it would take them
years to get what they could get out of
the rest of their product portfolio in a
matter of months. And so I I don't think
they're going they're probably look at
this category. I wouldn't be surprised
if they they built some kind of simple
version, maybe a more mid-market or SMB
focused version, but to really devote
the time and energy to to master the
complexities of enterprise service
management. Not to say they couldn't,
but the focus that would require I think
would be a bad use and bad
prioritization of their resources and I
don't think that that's going to happen.
>> Yeah, I think you're right. Um let's
talk about your customers for a minute.
So
you got a bunch of the kind of really
nice AI native logos
and you're also starting to have some
kind of big enterprises.
How do the needs differ from the AI
native crowd to the big enterprise
crowd? And if you had to pick from each
of those
what's the nicest thing that they would
have to say about you? You know, Serval
is amazing because what would they say?
>> Yeah, I think what's [clears throat]
been the biggest learning is how similar
they are relative to how different. I
expected them to be much more different.
But the pain points and the problems end
up looking remarkably alike from the AI
native to the the large enterprises. You
know, we work with companies as small as
a few hundred employees up to companies
as large as a few hundred thousand
employees.
The difference ends up being how many
people it takes to make a decision. And
that's what actually makes things really
challenging is because
>> a go-to-market thing.
>> It's a go-to-market it's an
implementation thing more than that.
>> Yeah.
>> So when you're if you're working with a
company with a few hundred employees,
there's probably an IT leader that can
say this is how we're going to do
things.
This is how onboarding works. This how
we're going to reset passwords,
whatever.
If you're working with a company with a
few hundred thousand employees
no one even knows who that person is if
that person exists. And so you end up in
all these kind of committees trying to
figure out what should we do here.
And that's actually what makes it very
very challenging.
Um and yeah, I think you see that in in
these labs building out these consulting
businesses and and more and more
services, and deployment resources,
because that ends up being a lot of the
the rate-limiting step in adoption is
coordinating all these folks. So, what
would the nice things they say about me?
I I think uh or about Serval. Um in the
the AI-native early-stage companies, we
we often just we take an IT person
that's passionate about technology, and
we let them spend their time building.
They got into IT because they love
technology.
And so much of their job before Serval,
they weren't really getting to
experience technology. Um my favorite
example of this is a customer we had
that spent a lot of their day
fielding ServiceNow requests to
provision someone's access to Cursor.
>> Yeah.
>> And that juxtaposition was just so sad.
I'm like, [laughter] I am in this like
ancient ticketing system helping
somebody else at the company get access
to a really cool AI tool.
And my tools are still uh in stuck in
the past, and I don't get to use the
cool stuff. And with Serval, they get to
use the cool stuff. Like, there's
actually an AI tool for IT built for
them. And so, that's I think what we see
on the the AI-native side.
I think in the large enterprise, you
know, generally they're thinking about
it at just a higher-level of of business
transformation. And we hear a lot more
about the end employee experience,
because in a small company,
e- even if your IT processes aren't
perfect, no one's waiting weeks
to get a response back from IT. But a
large organization, like, you could send
a ticket into you know, into the abyss.
>> Yeah.
>> And and just have no idea where it's at,
if it's being worked on, so then you'll
send another ticket, and then there's
confusion on the other side, cuz now
you've got two tickets from the same
person, and and there's actually people
that are blocked for weeks from getting
back to the thing they're trying to do.
And so, I think in a large enterprise,
we actually change the employee
experience and what it feels like to be
an employee.
And and have this more broad impact,
because the problems are actually a lot
deeper in those big organizations.
>> What is a delightful or surprising use
of Serval at Serval? How do you guys use
it?
>> Oh man, I force the team to use it for
everything.
>> [laughter]
>> Um so every time I see
>> do they really push the boundaries of
like what I can do?
>> I mean obviously like things like office
requests, like snacks, like all of that
has to go through Serval. Um but I think
one of the coolest things we do for
Serval is one, we have a channel called
Dream Team Draft. We take this very
person-first approach to recruiting
where we want to identify the best
people in the world and we want to bring
them to Serval versus just cast a wide
funnel, host an open tryout and see who
makes it. And so people put the best
people they've ever worked with in this
channel, they post a LinkedIn.
That's a Serval channel. So Serval will
take that profile and then run a series
of automations. One, it'll it'll run
into all of our outbound and campaigns,
our nurture campaigns. It'll also do a
lot of things that my marketing team
won't let me talk about of like making
sure [laughter] that they are seeing
Serval uh everywhere they go and and
Serval becomes very top of mind for them
and we basically warm this audience to
make sure that that they know about
Serval and we're playing the long game
because these are generally not people
that are going to leave their job
tomorrow, but people that we'd love to
work with one day. And so I I love the
idea of going in and saying like, "Hey,
all I have to do as an employee is just
like I love this person, they're great
and I'm done." And the talent team will
be able to through Serval have all these
automations that kind of get them into
the the system.
>> That is very cool. Um
what's the best reason to work at
Serval? Like why do people join your
team?
>> I think it is the greatest group of
people I've ever worked with. I think
when you walk into our office
and you meet our team, it's just a group
of so
you know, people that are so kind and so
talented and so fun to be around. And I
think that that's what's really unique
is is I didn't even know I was selecting
for this
>> Yeah.
>> when we started the company. But
something candidates started to tell me
is that, "Wow, your team is so nice
and they're so fun to be around and like
I walked in the office and the energy
was just contagious and I I wanted to
work there."
And obviously there's really interesting
technical problems, you know, building
these really complex uh enterprise
automations, getting to touch HR, legal,
finance, IT, security. Like it's kind of
a training ground. We often think about
this as a training ground for anyone who
wants to do anything in AI. You get to
like touch all these different
departments, build all these cool
workflows. Um
but I think the, you know, if I'm being
honest, the reason you join Serval is
because you meet the team and you
realize this is the place for you.
>> Yeah, very cool.
We heard some of the words that you used
to describe your culture, you know, fun
and nice and high-energy people. What is
it not?
>> It is not a good place um for
I'd say a lot of training or mentorship.
So, everyone is kind, but everyone's
doing their job and there is not a lot
of, "Hey, you're going to be onboarded
through this program and you're going to
learn how to do these things and we're
going to train you really well and we're
going to pair you with, you know, some
resources and coaching and mentorship."
And uh there are great companies that do
that really well. We are not one of
them. So, we we hire people to come in
and and basically be productive on day
one. Um and who like that ambiguity of
I've got to show up and figure out what
I'm supposed to do and then do it really
really well. Um so, it's it's not a
place for coaching and mentorship. It's
not a place for very clearly defined
career paths. We don't know where a lot
of these functions are going to go. So,
there's not going to be this clear
progression up the org chart. There's
not really an org chart. I don't
actually know who reports to me at the
company. Um
I I I am like blissfully unaware of who
technically reports to me versus other
people because we try to keep everything
as flat as possible.
And and so, if you're looking for that
kind of like natural progression, you
know, it's just not going to be a good
place for you.
>> Yeah. As far as one of the big topics
that
uh we've had a lot of conversations on
recently just amongst founders and folks
is this idea of living in the future and
not only the product that you build
needs to be AI-native, but the way that
you build it and the way that you manage
your organization needs to be AI native.
Um beyond using Serval itself, like what
does that mean for you guys? Like how is
the way that you operate changed this
time around versus Verkada or your prior
companies?
>> In so many ways. So one is
we are questioning everyone's role, uh
every department. We're wondering if it
needs to exist anymore and if it still
makes sense. And oftentimes it does. You
we relearn the necessity of some
departments that we thought maybe we
didn't need. And but we start with the
the assumption that maybe this doesn't
need a person anymore. Maybe this could
be AI. So AI almost gets like the right
of first refusal for every job or every
department of like, hey, maybe we don't
need this at all. Um and maybe this can
be much smaller than maybe this can be
even smaller.
>> example of something that fully went to
AI?
>> Um solutions engineering.
So we don't have SEs. We also don't have
SDRs, but I think that's been that's
less of a controversial take um over the
past few years, but we don't have SDRs
and we we don't have a a solutions
engineers.
Um
our reps
are not necessarily more technical than
than reps in in past generations have
been, but they have access to Serval.
>> Yeah.
>> And so any question they have about how
the product works or that a customer
comes up with a prospect, Serval's going
to give them an instant ax- answer to
that question. Serval can even build
them decks, build them um one-pagers and
quick uh
you know, battle cards and comparison
sheets, like all of that on the fly in
the middle of a call.
So we expect more out of our AEs and
they're not going to have the SE
resource. Um we do have four deployed
engineers that assist with the actual
pilot implementation.
But that's been one example where we
didn't need that. We also delayed hiring
in a lot of domains like in in um and
sometimes not by choice, just by uh the
slowness of our hiring, but we've
discovered how fast how far we can get
um on the enablement side. We have uh
someone in product marketing who's done
an incredible job of like building out
enablement and all these automated
resources and scaled that quite far and
we we definitely need more help there,
but you know, a lot of times you get
further than you think with these AI
tools. Um RevOps is another one where
we've gotten pretty far without a RevOps
hire, but then discovering like actually
you do need somebody eventually. And so
there's a lot of these things where you
delay it a little bit and you're like,
"Actually, we need somebody, but maybe
this department is a little bit smaller
than we thought it was going to be."
>> Company is about 2 and 1/2 years old,
thereabouts?
>> Just 2 years old.
>> 2 years old, okay. In the last and you
guys have grown like crazy, more people,
more customers, all that good stuff. How
has your job changed in the last 2
years?
>> In the very early days, I felt very
useless, honestly. [laughter]
Um
my CTO is is building the product and
it's very clear what we need to build.
Uh there's so much to build and I'm
trying desperately to hire and to set up
customer calls and maybe try to sell
this thing and it's not working.
Um
and so I think in the early days it was
kind of like trying to figure out how I
can be most useful when we don't really
have a business yet. And
and then over time it it switches and
and it becomes a business and stops
being me kind of pushing the boulder up
the hill and and more of the business
dragging me along.
Um
I think what hasn't changed, I'm still
very involved with customers both in the
sales side, but also in like the
long-term success and talking to
customers every day.
Um I'm still very involved in
recruiting.
What I'm not as involved in that I'd
like to be is is a lot of product. Um in
the early days, I am
thinking nonstop about the product
direction. And now it feels like the
product direction is kind of emerging
from our customers through our forward
deployed engineers and going right into
the product. And which is in many ways
great because you have this kind of nice
closed loop of customers talking to
forward deployed engineers and then the
product's getting implemented and
getting better all the time. You know,
I've often referred to this as like
gradient descent for product
improvements cuz our forward deployed
engineers are just just just swarmed
with all these uh you know, all this
feedback from customers. They're like,
"Oh, I'll fix this. I'll make this
better. I'll change this." And like you
fast forward a week and like wow, the
product is a lot better than it was a
week ago. And it keeps going that way.
Um but I get to spend a lot less time
thinking about the future and and where
we want to be, and
I think that's something that that I
need to spend more time on because
this stuff is changing so quick. To your
question earlier about,
you know, how are we different as an
organization, an an an AI native
organization,
I think a big difference is you have to
be willing to reinvent yourself so much
faster and disrupt yourself so much
faster. Like we are thinking about just
uprooting things that we were convinced
were true months ago and going in
completely different directions in all
these different ways, and we have to
have that flexibility. We're going to be
renaming parts of the product. We're
going to be completely shifting how we
do certain things in the product, and we
have to be willing to do that over and
over and over again, and there's going
to be less of this idea of like I am
building
a software that's going to last for 20
years
and more I'm going to build software
that hopefully will last 6 months, and
then I might have to rebuild it uh once
the paradigm shift and the markets have
changed.
>> Yeah, and let me ask you about that
because there's a foundation
or a set of foundation models and
capabilities.
There's a customer on the other.
And there's Serval in the middle.
And these capabilities are changing at a
very rapid pace.
This customer
is probably not changing all that fast.
And so you guys in the middle are kind
of this buffer
>> Yes.
>> that [laughter] is
trying to take all these capabilities
and put them to work for the customer.
So the So the question is really it's
kind of a change management question.
Like how do you keep the customer from
drowning on this downpour of
capabilities coming out of the
foundation models?
>> I think that's exactly the right way to
think about it. We are in the We are
kind of the that translation layer.
>> Yeah.
>> And we have to meet customers where they
are. I mean, I think we very much have
to understand their business problems.
And that's what what really helps with
the forward deployed engineers is we are
starting with their business problems.
What are they trying to solve for? And
then we are helping them discover how
those solutions are implemented in
Serval.
We are on the other side figuring out
how to take in the latest advances in AI
to be able to deliver those solutions.
And so that is kind of what role we
serve and then we're often educating
them of like, "Hey, here's how we do
this and by the way it's changed since
how we would have done this 3 months ago
and we have these new tools at play, but
we will be the ones to help figure this
out for you."
And one of the things we're working on
is how can we bridge that gap a little
bit more succinctly? So how can we make,
you know, an agent available to the end
user that kind of says, "Okay, what are
your business problems? Cool. Here's
what we're going to do. Here's how we're
going to solve them." So you don't
really have to think about the latest
advances. Serval just kind of takes care
of that for you and you just have to
focus on what are your problems, what
are you trying to achieve.
>> What's your most contrarian take on the
world of AI?
>> So one take that I have, which I don't
know how contrarian this is, but
I think there's this big gap emerging
between
who wants autonomy
and who wants control of these agents.
And the individuals in an enterprise,
they want autonomy. They want their
Claude agent to do everything for them
and have access to everything. The
organization itself
doesn't want their employees' agents to
have all this autonomy.
And there is this interesting tension
emerging between and I often see this in
consumer versus enterprise products
where the consumer products obviously
are built for a world where you want it
to do everything and the enterprise
products are built more with this
control layer. And what's happening in
the enterprise is that
the individuals are adopting these tools
and wanting it to be able to do more and
the the security organization, the IT
organization is very worried about this
and for good reason.
And I think that's something interesting
to track is this tension between
autonomy. Like do organizations actually
want autonomy
or do just individuals want autonomy?
And how do you navigate that tension?
And that's where we're thinking a lot
about the Serval product and how we help
solve that.
>> It reminds me of shadow IT back in the
day when consumers started to adopt
iPhones and enterprises still had
Blackberries cuz they could lock down
the Blackberry and the iPhone started to
show up with work information and then
work applications and they're kind of
sneaking their way into the enterprise
and the instinct of most
CISOs was, you know, protect, protect,
protect. And then I think eventually
they realized, "Wait a minute, this is
kind of the leading indicator on what my
employees need to be productive."
And they started to embrace it, yep,
right? And it it feels like the same
thing's happening now with AI where
employees kind of a lot of them kind of
know what they need to be productive and
as long as you can just kind of
systematically follow those signals and
embrace it,
you're more likely to end up on the
right side of history.
>> Yeah, and I think the companies that
that basically say yes as the default
are going to
be way ahead of the companies that say
no as a default. And we're seeing this
with the companies that just embrace it.
They will also kind of be leading the
charge and face a lot of the
consequences of there going to be
security incidents, there are going to
be problems and and we're going to learn
a lot from those, but I think that that
is that is what we're going to see is
the companies that take those risks are
going to get ahead.
>> Yeah. But that you know, those risks are
real and they're also going to be some
of the ones that suffer some of the
consequences on the security incidents.
>> What's your biggest issue at the moment?
>> Our biggest issue is hiring still. Every
AI company I talk to is is in the same
situation
even though AI is allegedly supposed to
automate all this work and take away all
these jobs. [laughter]
We're all still hiring more than ever
before [snorts] and it's still like our
number one priority and our number one
concern. And so,
um but I think people remain the biggest
moat you can have and having better
people in the room is really the only
thing that's will keep you ahead of the
competition. But that's the only moat
that's left is the people in your
organization. So, hiring and scaling and
keeping the bar incredibly high as we
hire are the things that keep me up at
night and and worry me especially the
business grows so much that I have I'm
less involved. You know, there's a lot
of people that I only meet in their
interview and their onboarding, but not
have probably a lot of one-on-one
interactions after that.
>> Yeah. The talent density point, I think
is a good one. And we we think about
that a lot, too, cuz we're sort of in
this world where cost goes down,
capabilities go up, the result is
accelerating change.
If the world is changing quickly around
you, you have to optimize for agility.
>> Yes.
>> The best way to optimize for agility as
an organization is to have the smallest
possible number of the best possible
people.
>> Right? And so, I feel like
the returns to talent density have never
been higher than they are today.
And so, like you guys could go hire a
million people, but like doing so with
the sort of quality and culture culture
fit that you need, you know, that's
that's tricky.
>> And to your point, it it makes it harder
to steer the to turn the ship.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and so, our mantra on hiring is fewer
better. Fewer better. Like we say this
over and over again, fewer better. Like
how can we make this department fewer
and better?
>> Yeah.
>> And and that's going to be really
important because again, I think we're
going to have to reinvent ourselves more
frequently than companies have ever had
to do this before. And I can imagine a a
future version of Serval where it's
unrecognizable from what we do today
because we just had to adapt so quickly.
And that's much easier to do with a
small agile team than if you scale very
rapidly, you become thousands and
thousands of employees and you say,
"Hey, by the way, we're changing
everything about our go-to-market. We're
changing everything about what our
product does."
>> Yeah.
>> You know, we're making some big changes
to the product, and it's nice to have a
relatively small organization that can
embrace that shift almost overnight.
>> I can't imagine what we do if we had to
convince thousands of people that this
is the new direction.
>> Yeah. Let's assume
and obviously, this is not something we
can take for granted, but just for fun,
let's assume. Let's assume that Serval
becomes a monster company. You know, it
gazillion customers and employees and
revenue and market cap and free cash
flow and all that great stuff. Let's
assume you become monster company.
At that point, what would you want
people to say about you? What else would
you want to be true
that is not contained in one of those
traditional metrics of scale or success?
>> I think I would want the impact of
Serval to be very clear in terms of like
what it did for the world.
Um the impact I think is most important
of what we do today is is we unlock
meaningful work for people.
You know, I think that there's always a
gap between the idealized vision of what
you think your job's going to be and
then what your job actually is. I think
that's true for every profession. You
you idealize and kids do this the most,
right? When they're like want to be a
firefighter or astronaut.
>> [laughter]
>> Um what that job looks like and then and
then you get in that job and you
realize, oh there's there's actually a
lot in this that I don't like.
And we want to be the tool that that
actually closes the gap between what you
think your job's going to be and what
your job actually is.
And we do that by automating away all
this,
you know, repetitive, menial work that
you don't want to do and that is not
productive and is not part of the reason
you took this job. And we've done that
in many ways for IT and I think as we
unlock automation for the entire
organization, that's what we do for
people is we get them back to the work
that they actually signed up for and the
work they actually enjoy.
And so I would hope that there is
clarity
that that was the impact that we had and
it wasn't just like, oh Serval automated
away a bunch of IT jobs.
It's like, now I want people to feel
like Serval made people's work lives a
lot better.
>> Awesome.
That feels like a great place to end it.
Jake, thank you so much for joining us
today. Thank you so much for having me.
This was a blast.
>> [music]
[music]